# CS-305-Software-Security-
Portfolio 


Artermis financial, is my client who is a company who specializes in custom software design and development for entrepenuers, businesses, and government agencies around the world. It was my job to make sure that "security is everyones responsibilty" I was assigned to be the agile scrum for global rain. Artemis financial is a financial consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for savings, retirement, investments, and insurance for their patrons. The main goal was for me to make sure that they have top of the line security and that the software we were creating was secure for the users and all of their personal data. To detect the software security issues we ran the software and debugged it accordingly due to their security needs. We ran multiple maven checks so we knew all of the vulnerabilities and which lines of the code we needed to check so the software ran securely for Artemis Financial and all of their clients. It is very important to code securely because if you do not we are putting ourselves at risk for hacking and our personal data being compromised. Security adds value to our company and our overall wellbeing by giving us a good reputation and it keeps us from encountering unnecessary data breaches and issues we can avoid before they happen. Working through the vulnerability assessment I found it very helpful because it gave me confidence in my code and how secure it was. The only challenges I encountered was getting vulnerability errors that I had never seen before. I did my own research and found the errors and how to resolve them. I enjoyed the challenge and it made me overall a better coder due to increased security measures. An appropriate algorithm cipher for the client’s needs would be AES, using SHA-256 as a hash function. AES is used widely by secure messaging applications, banking institutions, and even the US Federal government, who approved AES as the US federal standard in May, 2002. AES uses symmetric keys to encrypt and decrypt data, as opposed to non-symmetric keys, where different keys are used to encrypt and decrypt the data. It can use 128, 192, or 256 bit keys. SHA-256 is a hash function that has a 256-bit digest. In other words, there are 2256 possible hash combinations, or 1.1579209e+77 possible combinations. A number that large remains, at this point, virtually impervious to brute force attacks and incredibly unlikely to create collisions. In addition, it is recognized by NIST as a standard encryption cipher (Computer Security Division). This means that it is not only considered a safe option but there are resources available to test its setup and efficacy for developers. Symmetric keys use the same key to both encrypt and decrypt the data. Non-symmetric keys use one key to encrypt the data and another decrypt it. When non-symmetric keys are used, one is often public, allowing anyone to send a message to the system. The other remains private, so that responses are protected. These are great ways I increased the layers of security. The best algorithm for safety is AES due to it being considered impossible to decode and it is used by the government for confidential information. I plan to keep furthering my knowledge in software security because it is so important when creating code. This semester taught me the importance of safety measures and how easily you can be hacked or have a data breach if you do not take precautions and stop outsiders from stealing data. For future assignments and classes I will always run a maven test and generate a dependency report. This was the first time I learned how to see vulnerabilities in depth and how they affect my code. This class has been so useful for tools needed in my future career. I plan to take my new skills and keep building my knowledge to ensure a successful coding career.  
